You always have to start by asking
yourself, did evolution spend a lot of
time optimizing this? If yes, my job is
going to be insanely hard. If no,
potentially there are some lowhanging
fruit. And so I think that puts human
aging and longevity really in this
category of problem in which it should
be relatively speaking easy to try and
intervene and provide health. We have a
gene called TRIM 5 alpha. Trim 5 alpha
once protected against an HIV like
pathogen. It's currently protecting
against a virus which no longer exists
and you can edit it back to actually
restrict HIV dramatically. You can
reprogram a cell's type and a cell's age
simultaneously just by turning on four
genes. Out of the 20,000 genes in the
genome, the tens of millions of
biomolelecular interactions, just four
genes is enough. That's a shocking fact.
Today, I have the pleasure of chatting
with Jacob Kimmel, who is president and
co-founder of New Limit, where they
epigenetically reprogram cells to their
younger states. Jacob, thanks so much
for coming on the podcast.
>> Thanks so much for having me. Looking
forward to the conversation.
>> All right, first question. What's the
first principles argument for why
evolution just like discards us so
easily? Look, I know evolution cares
about our kids, but if we have longer,
healthier lifespans, we can have more
kids, right? Or we can care for them
longer, we can care for our grandkids.
So, is there some plyotropic effect that
anti-aging medicine would have which
actually selects against you staying
young for longer?
>> Yeah. So, I think there there are a
couple different ways one can tackle
this. One is you have to think about
what's the selective pressure that would
make one live longer and encode for
higher health over longer durations. Do
you have that selective pressure
present? There's another which is are
there any anti- selective pressures that
are actually pushing against that. And
there's a third piece of this which is
something like the constraints of your
optimizer. If we think about the genome
as a set of parameters and the optimizer
is natural selection, then you've got
some constraints on how that actually
works. You can only do so many mutations
at a time. You have to kind of spend
your steps that update your genome in
certain ways. So tackling those from a
few different directions like what would
the positive possible selection be as
you highlighted it might be something
like well if I'm able to extend the
lifespan of an individual they can have
more children they can care for those
children more effectively that genome
should propagate more more readily into
the population and so one of the
challenges then if you're trying to
think back in sort of a thought
experiment style of evolution of of uh
evolutionary simulation here would be
what were the conditions under which a
person would actually live long enough
for that phenotype to be selected for
and How often would that occur? And so
this brings us back to some very
hypothetical questions. Things like what
was the baseline hazard rate during the
majority of human and private evolution?
The hazard rate is simply what is the
likelihood you're going to die on any
given day? And that integrates
everything. That's like diseases from
aging. That's getting eaten by a tiger.
That's falling off a cliff. That's like
scraping your foot on a rock and getting
an infection and dying from that. And so
from the best evidence we have, the
baseline hazard rate was very, very
high. And so even absent aging, you're
unlikely to actually reach those outer
limits of possible health where aging is
one of the main limitations. And so the
number of individuals in the population
that are going to make it later in that
lifespan where using some of your
evolutionary updates to try and actually
push your lifespan upward is relatively
limited. So the amount of gradient
signal flowing back to the genome then
is not as high as one might intuitively
think.
>> Right? By the way, just on that, often
people who are trying to forecast AI
will discuss basically how hard did
evolution try to optimize for
intelligence and what were the the
things which optimizing for intelligence
would have prevented evolution from
selecting for at the same time which
would make it so that even if
intelligence were a relatively easy
thing to build in this universe,
>> it would have taken evolution so long to
get a human level intelligence. And
potentially if it was if intelligence
would be really easy then it might imply
that you know we're going to get to
super intelligence and you know Jupiter
level intelligence etc etc the sky's is
the limit. So one argument you know like
birth canal sizes etc or the fact that
you know we had to spend most of our
resources on the immune system. But what
you just sent that at is actually an
independent argument that if you have
this high hazard rate, that would imply
that you can't be a kid for too long
because you got to, you know, the kids
die all the time and you got to become
an adult so that you can have your kids.
>> Yeah. You got to contribute resources
back to the group. You can't just be a
freeloader. You need to get calories, go
out in the jungle, get some berries.
>> Like if you're just um if you're just
hanging out learning stuff for 50 years,
you're just going to die before you get
to have kids yourself. So obviously
humans have bigger brains than other
primates. We also have longer
adolescences which help us make use
potentially of the extra capacity our
brain gives us. But if you made the
adolescence too big uh then you would
just die before you get to have kids.
And if that's going to happen anyways,
what's the point of making the brain
bigger? Aka, you know, maybe maybe
intelligence is easier than we think and
there's a bunch of contingent reasons
evolution didn't turn as hard on this
variable as it could have.
>> I entirely agree with that particular
thesis. You know, I think in biology in
general, when you're trying to engineer
a given property, be it being healthier
longer, be it making something more
intelligent, and this is true even at
the micro level of trying to engineer a
system to manufacture a protein at high
high efficiency. You always have to
start by asking yourself, did evolution
spend a lot of time optimizing this? If
yes, my job is going to be insanely
hard. If no, potentially there are some
lowhanging fruit. And so, I think this
is a good argument for why potentially
intelligence wasn't strongly selected
for. And I think actually the lifespan
argument plays back into intelligence to
a degree. You start ask
for instance in some hypothetical
universe my fluid intelligence lasts
much longer if the number of people who
are reaching something like 65 is very
small in a population you're not
necessarily going to select for alals
that lead to fluid intelligence
preservation late into life. This is
actually part of my own pet hypothesis
around some of the interesting
phenomenology in when discoveries are
made throughout lifespans. So there are
some famous results where for instance
I'm going to get the exact age a little
bit wrong but in mathematics most great
discoveries happen roughly before 30.
Why should that be true? That doesn't
make sense. You can sort of put down a
bunch of societal reasons for it. Oh
maybe you sort of you know become stay
in your ways. Your teachers have you
know caused you to restrict your
thinking by that point. But really
that's true across centuries. That's
true across many different unique
cultures around the world. That's true
in both cultures from the east and
cultures from the west. That seems
unlikely to me. I think a much simpler
explanation is that for whatever reason,
our fluid intelligence is roughly
maximized at the time where the
population size during human evolution
was maximal. If you had to pick an age
at which fluid intelligence was selected
most strongly for, it's probably around
25 or 30. That's probably about the age
of the adults in the large populations
that were being selected for during most
of evolution. And so I think there's a
lot of reason here to think that
actually there's interplay between many
features of modern humans and how long
we were living and how that dictates
some of the features that occur that
rise and fall throughout our lives.
>> So in one way this is actually a very
interesting RL problem, right? It's a
long horizon RL problem 20-year horizon
length and then there's a scalar value
of how many kids you have. I guess
that's survive etc. Um, and if you know
how hard or I I don't know, but if
you've heard from your friends about how
hard um RL is on these models for just
very intermediate goals that last an
hour or a couple hours, it's actually
surprising that any signal propagates
across a 20 20 year horizon. Um, by the
way, on the point about fluid
intelligence speaking, so not only is it
the case that in many fields uh
achievement peaks before 30, in many
cases if you look at the greatest
scientists ever, they had many of their
greatest achievements in a single year.
So um
>> yeah the annual mirror bliss yeah
exactly exactly yeah non what is it
optics gravity calculus uh 21
>> do you know the Alexander von Halt story
no
>> so Alexander von Halt's one of the most
famous scientists in history is kind of
forgotten now but he had this one
expedition to South America where he
climbed Mount Chimberazzo at a time when
very few Europeans had done that and so
he was able to observe various
ecological layers that were repeated
across latitudes and across altitudes
and it caused him to formulate an
understanding of how selection was
operating
plants at different layers in the
ecosystem. And that one expedition was
the basis of his entire career. And so
when you see something named Hmel, just
to give you a sense of how famous this
guy is, it's usually Alexander von H.
It's not like this is some like massive
prosperous German family name that just
happens to be really common. It's this
one guy. Um and so really it was like
this singular year in which he conceived
a lot of our modern understanding of
botany and selective pressure.
>> Interesting. So that's one out of three
components of uh the evolutionary story.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So then the next piece of
the evolutionary story is like is there
anything selecting against longevity?
Like okay, let's just pretend everything
I said was wrong. Can I still make an
argument that maybe evolution hasn't
maximally optimized for our longevity?
One argument that comes up and I'll
caveat and say I don't know how strong
some of the mathematical models that
people put together here are. You can
find people using the same idea to argue
for and against. But there's this notion
what's called kin selection that if you
sort of take a selfish gene view of the
world that really this is the genome
optimizing for the genome's propagation.
it's not trying to optimize for any one
individual. Then actually optimizing for
longevity is a pretty tricky problem
because you have this nasty
regularization term which is that if
you're able to make a member of the
population live longer, but you don't
also counteract the decrease in their
fitness over time, meaning you maybe
extend maximum lifespan, but you haven't
totally eliminated aging, then the
number of net calories contributed to
the genome as a function of that
person's marginal year and their own
calorie consumption is less than if you
were to allow that individual to die and
actually have two 20-year-olds, for
instance, that that sort of follow
behind And so there is a notion by which
a population being laden demographically
with many aged individuals even if they
did have ficundity persisting out some
period later in life is actually net
negative for the genome's proliferation
and that really a genome should optimize
for turnover and population size at max
fitness.
>> I love this idea of aging as a length
regularizer. So I mean people might be
familiar with the idea that when
companies are training models they'll do
have a regularizer for you can do chain
of thought but don't make the chain of
thought too long and then you're saying
like how many calories you consume over
the course of your life is that one such
regularizer
that's interesting okay and then the
third point was
>> the third piece is basically
optimization constraints so I think this
is where another ML analogy is helpful
which is something like well actually a
two-layer neural network is technically
a universal approximator but we can ever
actually fit them in such a way. And why
does that occur? People will wave their
hands, but it basically comes down to we
don't really know how to optimize them
even if you can prove out in a formal
sense that they are universal
approximators.
>> And so I think we have similar
optimization challenges with our genome
as the parameters and evolution as the
optimization algorithm.
>> And one of those is that your mutation
rate basically bounds the step size you
can take. So if you imagine that at each
generation you get some number of
inputs, you can select for some number
of alals. Well, the max number of
variations in the genome is set by your
mutation rate. If you dial your mutation
rate up too high, you probably get a
bunch of cancers. So, you're select
you're selected against. If you have it
too low, you can't really adapt to
anything. So, you end up with this happy
medium, but that limits your total step
size. And then the number of variants
you can screen in parallel is basically
limited by your population size. And so,
for most of evolution, there are lots of
forces constraining population size as
well. One of the dominant source of
selection on the genome is really
prevention of infectious disease. And it
seems like when you study the history of
early modern man, infectious disease is
actually what shaped a lot of our
population demographics. And so there's
a lot of pressure pushing for those step
sizes, those updates to the genome
really to be optimizing for protection
against infectious disease rather than
other things. And so even if you imagine
that maybe the arguments on the former
and the the first and the second of
these possible, you know, positive
selection being absent for longevity and
potentially some negative selection
existing, you could, I think, construct
a reasonable argument for why humans
don't live forever, why, you know, the
genome hasn't optimized for that simply
based on these optimization constraints.
You have to imagine not only that the
positive selection is there and the
negative selection is absent, but that
when you think about sort of the
weighted loss term of all the things the
genome is optimizing for, that the
weight on longevity is high enough to
matter. And so even if you imagine it's
there, if you simply imagine that the
lambdas are dialed toward infectious
disease resilience more effectively,
then you can construct an argument for
yourself. And so I think really when you
start to ask why don't we live forever?
Why didn't evolution solve this? You
actually have to think about an
incredibly contingent scenario where
both the positive selection is there,
the negative selection is absent, and
you have a lot of our evolutionary
pressure going toward longevity to solve
this incredibly hard problem in order to
construct the counterfactual in which
longevity is selected for and does arise
in modern man and in which we are
optimal. And so I think that puts human
aging and longevity and health really in
this category of problem in which
evolution has not optimized for it. Ergo
it should be relatively speaking
relative to a problem evolution had
worked on easy to try and intervene and
provide health. And I think in many ways
the existence of modern medicines which
are incredibly simplistic. We are
targeting a single gene in the genome
and turning it off everywhere at the
same time. And yet the fact that these
provide massive benefit to individuals
is another sort of uh positive emission
or piece of evidence. Antibiotics are an
even more clear case of that because
here is something that evolution
actually cares a lot about right. So it
feels like antibiotics should
>> why didn't humans evolve their own
antibiotics. Yeah, it's actually an
excellent question that I haven't heard
posed before. Um so we think about where
do antibiotics come from? To your point,
we could synthesize them. They're just
metabolites largely of other other
bacteria and fungi. You think about the
story of penicellin. What happens?
Alexander Fleming finds some fungi
growing on a dish and the fungi secrete
this penicellin antibiotic compound and
so there's no bacteria growing near the
fungi. and he says he has this light
bulb moment of oh my gosh they're
probably making something that kills
bacteria. There's no primmaasia reason
that you couldn't imagine encoding an
antibiotic cassette into a mamleian
genome. I think part of the challenge
that you run into is that you're always
an evolutionary competition. There's
this notion of what's called the red
queen hypothesis. It's an illusion to
the story in Louiswis Carol's Through
the Looking Glass where the red queen is
running really fast just to stay in
place. So when you look at sort of
pathogen host interactions or
competition between bacteria and fungi
that are all trying to compete for the
same niche, what you find is they're
evolving very rapidly in competition
with one another. It's an arms race.
Every time a bacteria evolves a new
evasion mechanism, the fungus that
occupies the niche will evolve some new
antibiotic.
>> And so part of why that there is this
competitiveness between the two is they
both have very large population sizes in
terms of number of genomes per unit
resource they're consuming. There are
trillions of bacteria in a drop of water
that you might pick up. So there's
trillions of copies of the genome,
massive analog parallel computation, and
then at the same time, they can tolerate
really high mutation rates because
they're proarotic. They don't have
multiple cells. So if one cell manages
to mutate too much and it isn't viable
or it grows too fast, it doesn't really
compromise the population in the whole
genome. Whereas for mezzoans like you
and I, if even one of our cells has too
many mutations, it might turn into a
cancer and eventually kill off the
organism. So basically what I'm getting
at, and this is a long-winded way of
getting there, is that bacteria and
other types of microorganisms are very
well adapted to building these complex
metabolic cascades that are necessary to
make something like antibiotics. And
they are necessary, it's necessary to
maintain that same mutation rate and
population size in order to maintain the
competition. Even if our human genome
stumbled into making an antibiotic, most
pathogens probably would have mutated
around it pretty quickly. And actually
that should imply that there's
through evolutionary history millions of
quote unquote naive antibiotics
which could have acted as antibiotics
but now basically all the bacteria have
evolved around it. Do we see evidence of
these like historical antibiotics that
some fungi came up with and the bacteria
evolved around and all there's evidence
for remnant in their DNA?
>> I'm I'm going a bit beyond my own
knowledge here. So I want to say my
strong hypothesis would be yes. I can't
point to direct evidence today. There
are some examples of this where for
instance bacteria that uh fight off
viruses that infect them, bacteria
phasages have things like crisper
systems and you can actually go and look
at the spacers, the individual guide
sequences that tell the crisper system
which genome do you go, where do you cut
and you find some of these guides that
are very ancient. It seems like this
bacterial genome might not have
encountered that particular pathogen for
quite a while. And so you can actually
get sort of an evolutionary history of
what was the warfare like? what were the
various conflicts throughout this
genomic history just by looking at those
sequences. In mammals where I do know a
bit better, we do have examples of this
where there is this co-evolution of
pathogen and host. Imagine you have some
antiathogen gene A fighting off some
virus X. Well, you then actually update.
So now you have virus X prime and
antipathogen gene A prime. Now virus X
prime goes away, but actually virus X
still exists and we've lost our ability
to fight it. Those examples really do
happen. And so there's a prominent one
in the human genome. So we have a gene
called trim 5 alpha and it actually
binds a indogenous retrovirus that is no
longer present but was at one point
actually resurrected by a bunch of
researchers and it was demonstrated that
it is the case. We have this indogenous
gene which basically fits around the
capsit of the virus like a baseball and
a glove and prevents it from infecting.
And it turns out if you look at the
evolutionary history of that gene and
you trace it back through monkeys you
can actually find that a previous
iteration inhibited SIV which is the
cousin of HIV in humans. And so old
world monkeys actually can't get SIV
whereas new world monkeys can and humans
can obviously. And so it seems like what
happened and you can you can actually
make a few mutations in trim 5 alpha and
figure find that this is true is that
trim 5 alpha once protected against an
HIV like pathogen in the primate genomes
and then there was this challenge from
this massive indogenous retrovirus and
it was so bad that the genome lost the
ability to fight off these HIV like
viruses in order to restrict this
indogenous retrovirus. And you can see
it because that retrovirus integrates
into our genome. There are like latent
copies like the, you know, half bodies
of this virus all throughout our DNA
code.
>> And then this particular retrovirus went
extinct. Reasons unknown. No, no one
knows why. But we didn't like re-update
that piece of our host defense machinery
to fight off HIV again. And so we're in
a situation where you can go in and take
human cells and make just a couple edits
in that trim 5 alpha gene and it's
currently protecting against a virus
which no longer exists and you can edit
it back to actually restrict HIV
dramatically. So there are plenty of
examples. So you could imagine the same
thing for antibiotics. We're like, hey,
this particular, you know, defense
mechanism went away because the pathogen
evolved its own defense to it. Well, the
pathogen might have lost that defense
long ago. And if you could sort of
extract that historical antibiotic, that
historical antifungal, potentially, it
actually has efficacy.
>> Isn't the mutation rate per base pair
per generation like one in a billion or
something?
>> It's quite low. So you're saying that in
our genomes we can find some extended
sequence which encodes how how to bind
specifically to the kind of virus that
SIV is and the amount of evolutionary
signal you would need in order to have a
multiple base pair sequence. So each
nucleotide consecutively would have to
mutate in order to finally get the
sequence that binds to SIV.
That seems almost implausible that you
could like I mean I guess evolution
works so like we can come up with new
genes, right? But like how how would I
that even work?
>> I think I think a great explanation for
understanding a lot of evolution and how
you're able to actually adapt to new
environments, new pathogens is that gene
duplication is possible. And this
explains a whole lot. If you look at
most genes in the genome, they actually
arise at least at some point in
evolution from a duplication event. So
that means you've got gene A, it's
doing, you know, it's performing some
job and then some new environmental
concern comes along. Maybe it's like a
lack of particular to source of
nutrient. Maybe it's a pathogen
challenging you. And maybe gene A, if it
were to dedicate all of its energies, so
to speak, you were to mutate it to solve
this new problem, could be adapted with
a minimal number of mutations, but then
you lose its original function. So we
have this nice feature of the genome,
which is it can just copy and paste. And
so occasionally what'll happen in
evolution is you get a copy paste event.
Now I've got two copies of gene A and I
can preserve my original function in the
original copy. And then this new copy
can actually mutate pretty freely
because it doesn't have a strong
selective pressure on it. So most
mutations might be null. I've got two
copies of the gene. I can have lots of
mutations in it accumulate. Nothing bad
really happens because I've got my
backup copy, my original. And so you can
end up with drift. So you're saying that
even though the per base pair mutation
rate might be one in a billion, if
you've got a 100 copies of a gene, then
the sort of like mutation rate on a gene
or on a low Hamming distance um sequence
to the one you're aiming for might
actually be quite high and so you can
actually get the target sequence.
>> It's not that the base rate goes up.
It's not like DNA polymerase is, you
know, more erroneous or that you're just
like doubling it. It's not like, oh
well, I've got two copies. That is true,
but I don't think it's the main
mechanism. The ma one of the main
mechanisms that just makes it difficult
for evolution to solve a problem is that
if a mutation breaks a gene or somewhere
along the path of edits, imagine there
are three edits that take a host defense
gene from restricting SIV to restricting
this new nasty PT endogenous retrovirus.
Well, if one edit just breaks the gene,
two edits just breaks the gene, three
edits fixes it, it's really hard for
evolution to find a path whereby you're
actually able to make those first two
edits because they're net negative and
net negative for fitness. And so you
need some really weird contagion
circumstances. So through duplication,
you can create a scenario where those
first two edits are totally tolerated.
They have like no effect on fitness.
You've got your backup copy. It's doing
its job. And so even though the mutation
rate is low, some of these edits
actually aren't that large. I'm going to
forget the number of edits, for
instance, in trim 5 alpha for this
particular phenomenon we're talking
about for memory, but it's in like the
tens. It's not it's not that you need
massive kilobase scale rearrangements.
It's actually a fairly small number of
edits. And basically you can just align
the sequence of this gene in new world
versus old world monkeys and then for
humans and you find there's a very high
degree of conservation
>> conceptually. Is there um some
phoggenetic tree of gene families where
you've got the transposons and you've
got like the gene itself but then you've
got like the descendant genes which are
like low heming distance. Um I don't
know is there like some conceptual way
in which they're categorized? Okay.
>> You can arrange genes in the human
genome by homology to one another. And
what you find is even in our current
genome, even without having the full
historical record, there are many many
genes which are likely resulting from
duplication events. One like trivial way
that you can check this for yourself is
like just go look at the names of genes.
And very often you'll see something
where it's like gene one, gene 2, gene
three, or you know, type one, type two,
type three. And if you then go look at
the sequences, sometimes those names
arise from like they were discovered in
a common pathway and they have nothing
to do with each other. A lot of the time
it's because the sequences are actually
quite darn similar. And really what
probably happened is they evolved
through a duplication event and then
maybe did some swapping with some other
genes and you you ended up with these
quite similar quite homologous genes
that now have specialized functions. So
it's like when evolution has a new
problem to solve. It doesn't have to
start from scratch. It starts from like
what was the last copy of the parameters
for encoding a gene that is getting
close to solving this. Okay, let's do a
copy paste on that and then iterate and
fine-tune on those parameters as opposed
to having to start with like abinio some
random stretch of sequence somewhere in
the genome has to become a gene.
Interesting man. This is fascinating.
Okay. Um, back to aging. You'll cancel
your evening plans. I've got so many
questions for you and I keep going. Um,
so the second reason you gave which was
that
there's selective pressure against
people who get old but
still keep living but they're like
slightly less fit.
>> They're sub-optimal from a calorie input
perspective. Yeah, the number of
calories they can gather for the
population.
>> That's how people love thinking about
their grandpas, you know,
>> optimal optimal provider right there.
>> Um, anyways, so a concern you might have
about the effects of longevity
treatments on your own body is that you
will fix some part of the aging process
but not the whole thing. Mhm.
>> It seems like you're saying that you
actually think this is the default way
in which an anti-aging procedure would
work because that's the reason Evolution
didn't optimize it for it. It's just
that like we're only fixing half of the
aging process and not the whole thing.
Whereas sometimes I hear longevity
proponents be like no, you know, we'll
get the whole thing. There's like going
to be a source that explains all of
aging and we'll get it. Um whereas your
evolutionary argument for why evolution
didn't optimize against aging relies on
the fact that aging actually is not
monocausal uh and evolution didn't
bother to just fix one cause of aging.
>> Yeah, I I think that's correct. I I
don't think that there is a single
monocausal explanation for aging. I
think there are layers of molecular
regulation that explain a lot. For
instance, I have dedicated my career now
to working on epigenetics and trying to
change which genes cells use because I
think that explains a lot of it. But
it's not that there is like some
upstream bad gene X and all we have to
do is turn that off and suddenly aging
is solved. And so I think the most
likely outcome is that when we
eventually develop medicines that
prolong health in each of us, it's not
going to fix everything all at once.
There's not going to be a singular magic
pill, but rather you're going to have
medicines that add multiple healthy
years to your life, years you can't
otherwise get back, but it's not going
to fix everything at the same time. You
are still going to experience for the
first medicine some amount of decline
over time. And this gives you an example
of if you think about evolution as a
medicine maker in this sort of
anthropomorphic context, why might not
have been selected for immediately. What
would the AI foundation model for
trading and finance look like? It would
have to be what LLM NLP or what the
virtual cell is for biology. And it
would have to integrate every single
kind of information from around the
world from order books to geopolitics.
Now, think about how insane this
training objective is. Here's this
constantly changing RL environment with
input data that's incredibly easy to
overfitit to where you're pitted against
extremely sophisticated agents who are
learning from your behavior and plotting
against it. Obviously, there's very few
things in the world that are as complex
as global capital allocation. It's a
system that reflects billions of live
decisions in real time. Now, as you
might imagine, trading an AI to do all
of this is a compute intensive task.
That's why Hudson River Trading
continually upgrades its massive
in-house cluster with fresh racks of
brand new B200s being installed as we
speak and more on the way. HRT executes
about 15% of all US trading equities
volume and researchers there get
compensated for the massive website that
they create. If the newest researcher on
the team improves an HRT model, their
contributions are recognized and
rewarded right away regardless of their
tenure. If you want to work on high
stakes, unsolved problems unconstrained
by your GPU budget, check out HRT at
husten rivertrading.com/4ache.
All right, back to Jacob. All right, so
um uh evolution didn't select for aging.
What are you doing? What's your approach
at New Limit that you think is um is
likely to find the true cause of aging?
>> Yeah, so we're working on something
called epigenetic reprogramming, which
very broadly is using genes called
transcription factors. I like to think
about these as sort of the orchestra
conductors of the genome. They don't
perform many functions directly
themselves, but they bind specific
pieces of DNA and then they tell which
genes to turn on, which genes to turn
off. They eventually put chemical marks
on top of DNA on some proteins that DNA
surrounds. And this is one of the
answers, this particular layer of
regulation called the epiggenome. It's
the answer to this fundamental
biological question of how do all my
cells have the same genome but
ultimately do very different things.
Your eyeball and your kidney have the
same code and yet they're performing
different functions. And that may sound
a little bit simplistic, but ultimately
I think it's kind of a profound
realization. And so that epigenetic code
is really what's important for cells to
define their functions. That's what's
telling them which genes to evoke from
your genome. What is has now become
relatively apparent is that the
epigenome can degrade with age. It
changes. The particular marks that tell
your cells which genes to use can shift
as you get older. This means that cells
aren't able to use the right genetic
programs at the right times to respond
to their environment. You're then more
susceptible to disease. You have a less
less resilience to many insults that you
might experience. And our hope is that
by remodeling the epiggenome back toward
the state it was in when you were young,
right after development, that you'll be
able to actually address myriad
different diseases whose one of strong
contributing factors is that cells are
less functional than when you were at an
earlier point in your life. So, we're
going after this by trying to find
combinations of these transcription
factors that are able to actually
remodel the epiggenome so that they can
bind to just the right places in the DNA
and then shift the chemical marks back
toward that state when you were a young
individual. M
>> if you're just making these broad uh
changes to a cell state uh through these
transcription factors which have many
effects, are there other aspects of a
cell state that are likely to get
modified at the same time in a way that
would be deletarious or would it be um a
sort of straightforward effect on cell
state?
>> Oh, how I wish it were straightforward.
Um no, it's very likely the each of
these transcription factors binds
hundreds to thousands of places in the
genome. And one way of thinking about it
is if you imagine the genome is sort of
the base components of cell function,
then these transcription factors are
kind of like the basis set in linear
algebra. It's different combinations and
different weights of each of the genes.
And so most of them are targeting pretty
broad programs. And there are no
guarantees that aging actually involves
moving perfectly along any of the
vectors in this particular basis set.
And so it's probably going to be a
little tricky to figure out a
combination that actually takes you
backward. There's again no guarantees
from evolution that it's just a simple
reset. And so it's actually a critical
part of the process that we run through
as we try and discover these medicinal
combinations of transcription factors we
can turn on is to ensure that they not
only are making an age cell revert to a
younger state. We measure that a couple
different ways. One is simply measuring
which genes those cells are using. They
use different genes as they get older.
You can measure that just by sequencing
all of the mRNAs which are really the
expressed form of the genes being
utilized in the genome at a given time.
You see that age cells use different
genes. Can I revert them back to a
younger state? colloally we call this,
you know, a looks like assay. Can I make
an old cell look like a young one based
on the genes it's using? And maybe more
importantly, we go down and drill to the
functional level and we measure can I
actually make an age cell perform its
functions, its object roles within the
body the same way a young cell would.
And these are the really critical things
you care about for treating diseases.
Can I make a hypatocite, a liver cell in
Greek, um, function better in your
liver, so it's able to process
metabolites like the foods you eat, how
it's able to process toxins like alcohol
and caffeine. um can I make a T- cell
respond to pathogens and other antigens
that are presented within your body? So
these are the ways in which we measure
age and so we need to ensure that not
only does the combination of TFS that we
find actually have positive effects
along those axes but we then want to
also measure any potential detrimental
effects that that emerge.
>> So there are canonical examples where
you can seemingly reverse the age of a
cell for instance at the level of a
transcriptto but simultaneously you
might be changing that cell's type or
identity. So Shinyamanaka, a scientist
to woman Obel in 2012 for some work he
did in about 2007 discovered that you
could just take four transcription
factors and actually just by turning on
these four genes turn an adult cell all
the way back into a young embryionic
stem cell. So it's a pretty emer amazing
existence proof that shows that you can
reprogram a cell's type and a cell's age
simultaneously just by turning on four
genes. Out of the 20,000 genes in the
genome, the tens of millions of
biomolelecular interactions, just four
genes is enough. That's a shocking fact.
And so we actually have known for many
years now that you can reprogram the age
of a cell. The challenge is that
simultaneously you're doing a bunch of
other stuff as you alluded to. You're
changing its type and that might be
pathological. If you did that in the
body, it would probably cause a type of
tumor called a terteratoma. So we
measure not only at the level of the
genes a cell is using. Do you still look
like the right type of cell? Are you
still apatite? Are you still a T- cell?
If not, that's probably pathological.
But you can also use that same
information to check for a number of
other pathologies that might develop.
Did I make this T- cell
hyperinflammatory in a way that would be
bad? Did I make this liver cell uh
potentially neoplastic proliferate too
much even when the organism is healthy
and undamaged? And you can check for
each of those at the level of gene
expression programs. And then likewise
functionally before you put these
molecules in a human, you actually just
functionally check in an animal. You
make an itemized list of the possible
risks you might run into. Here are the
ways it might be toxic. Here are the
ways it might cause cancer. Are we able
to measure deter deterministically and
and empirically that that doesn't
actually occur? Okay, this is a dumb
question, but it will help me understand
why an AI model is necessary to do any
of this work. So, you mentioned the
Yamanaka factors. From my understanding,
the way he identified these four
transcription factors was that he found
the 24 um transcription factors that
associated uh that have high expression
in embryionic cells and then he just
turned them all on in a sematic cell.
Basically, he systematically removed
from this set until he found like the
minimal set that still induces a cell to
become a stem cell and that just like uh
doesn't require any fancy AI models etc.
Why can't we do the same things for the
transcription factors that are
associated with younger cells or express
more in younger cells as opposed to
older cells and then keep eliminating
from them until we find the ones that
are necessary to just make a cell young.
>> I wish it were so easy. Um you're
entirely right. You know, Shinyamanaka
was able to do this with a relatively
small team with relatively few resources
and achieve this remarkable feat. So,
it's entirely worth asking, why can't a
similar procedure work for arbitrary
problems in reprogramming cell state,
whether it be trying to make an age cell
act like a young one, disease cell act
like a healthy one, why can't you just
take 24 transcription factors and
randomly sort through them?
>> So, there were two features of Shinyo's
problem that I think make it amendable
to that sort of interrogation that
aren't present for many other types of
problems. And this is why he's such a
remarkable scientist. Most of science is
problem selection. You don't actually
get better at pipetting or running
experiments after a certain age, but you
do get better at picking what to do. And
and he's amazing at this. So the first
feature is that measuring your success
criterion is trivial in the particular
case he was investigating. He's starting
with sematic cells that in this case
were a type of fiberblast, which
literally is defined as cells that stick
to glass and grow in a dish when you
grind up a tissue. So it's like sounds
fancy, but it's a very very simplistic
thing. So he's starting with fiberblast.
You can look at them under a microscope
and you can see their fiberblast just
based on how they look. And then the
cells he's reprogramming toward are
embryionic stem cells. So these are tiny
cells. They're mostly nucleus. They grow
really, really fast. They look
different. They detach from a dish. They
grow up into a 3D structure. And they
express some genes that will just never
be turned on in a fiberblast by
definition. So actually how he ran the
experiment was he just set up a simple
reporter system. So he took a gene that
should never be on in a fiberblast,
should only be on in the embryo, and he
put a little reporter behind it so that
these cells would actually turn blue
when you dumped a chemical on them. And
then he ran this experiment in many,
many dishes with, you know, millions
upon millions of cells. The second
really key feature of the problem is
this notion that those cells he's
converting into amplify. They divide and
grow really quickly. So in order for you
to find a successful combination, you
don't actually need it to be efficient
almost at all. The original efficiency
Yamanaka published the number of cells
in the dish that convert from sematic to
an induced puropotent state back into a
stem cell is something like a basis
point or a tenth of a basis point. So
like 01.001%.
If these cells were not growing and they
were not proliferating like MAD, you
probably would never be able to detect
that you had actually found anything
successful. It's only because success is
easy to measure once you have it. and
even being successful in very rare
cases, one in a million amplifies that
and you can detect it that this I think
was amendable to to his particular
approach. So in practice what he would
do is dump these factors or this group
of 24 minus some number eventually
whittling it down to four, he would dump
these onto a group of cells and over the
course of about 30 days, just a few
cells in that dish, like a countable
number on your fingers would actually
reprogram, but they would proliferate
like mad. They form these big what we
call colonies because it's like a single
cell that just proliferates and forms a
bunch of copies of itself. They form
these colonies. You can see with your
eyeballs by holding the dish up to the
light and looking for opaque like opaque
little dots on the bottom. You don't
need any fancy instruments. And then you
could stain them with this particular
stain and they would turn blue based on
the genetic reporter he had. So now we
look at those key features of the
problem and we pick any other problem
we're interested in. I'm interested in
aging. So that's the one I'm going to
pick for explanation. How difficult is
it to measure the probability or the
likelihood of success or whether you've
achieved success for cell age? Well, it
turns out age is much more complicated
in terms of discriminating function than
actually just comparing two types of
cells. An old liver cell and a young
liver cell primascia actually look
pretty darn similar. It's actually quite
nuanced the ways in which they're
distinct. And so there isn't a simple
trivial system where you just like label
your one favorite gene or you can
>> just give the young cells cancer.
They'll grow, you know, you want to see
them.
>> Just just make the old ones cancer and
then they'll grow. Yeah, Dorash, you've
solved it for me. Um, so the there's no
trivial way that you can tell whether or
not you've succeeded. You actually need
a pretty complex molecular measurement.
And so for us, a real key enabling
technology, and I don't think our
approach would really have been possible
until it's emerged, was something called
single cell genomics. So you now take a
cell, rip it open, sequence all the
mRNAs it's using. And so at the level of
individual cells, you can actually
measure every gene that they're using at
a given time and get this really
complete picture of a cell's state,
everything it's doing, lots of mutual
information to other features. And from
that profile, you can train something
like a model that discriminates young
and aged cells with really high
performance. It turns out there's no one
gene that actually has that same
characteristic. So unlike in Yamanaka's
case where a single gene on or off is
like an amazing binary classifier, you
don't have that same feature of easy
detection of success in aging. The
second feature is as you highlighted, we
can't just turn these into cancer cells.
Success doesn't amplify. And so in some
ways the bar for a medicine is higher
than what Yamanaka achieved in his
laboratory discovery. You can't just
have 0001% success and then wait for the
cells to grow a whole bunch in order to
treat a patient's disease or you know
make their liver younger, make their
immune system younger, make their
endothelium younger. You need to
actually have it be fairly efficient
across many cells at a time. And so
because of this, we don't have the same
luxury Yamanaka did of taking a
relatively small number of factors and
finding a a success case within there
that was pretty low efficiency. We
actually need to search a much broader
portion of TF space in order to be
successful. And when you start playing
that game and you think, okay, how many
TFs are there? Somewhere between a,000
and 2,000. Depends on exactly where you
draw the line. And devi developmental
biologists love to argue about this over
beer, but let's call it 2,000 for now.
And you want to choose some combination.
Let's say you guess it's like somewhere
between 1 and six factors might be
required. The number of possible
combinations is about 10 to the 16. So
if you do any like math on the back of a
napkin, in order to just screen through
all of those, you would need to do many
orders of magnitude more single cell
sequencing than the entire world has
done to date cumulatively across all
experiments. And so it's just not
tractable to do exhaustively. And so
that's where actually having models that
can predict the effect of these
interventions comes in. If I can do a
sparse sampling, I can test a large
number of these combinations and I can
start to learn the relationship of what
a given transcription factor is going to
do to an age cell. Is it going to make
it look younger? Is it going to preserve
the same type? I can learn that across
combinations. I can start to learn their
interaction terms. Now I can use those
models to actually predict in silico for
all the combinations I haven't seen
which are most likely to give me the
state I want. And you can actually treat
that as a generative problem and start
sampling and asking which of these
combinations is most likely to take my
cell to some target destination in state
space. In our case, I want to take an
old cell to a young state. But you could
imagine some arbitrary mappings as well.
And so I think as you get to these more
complex problems that don't have the
same features that Sha benefited from,
which were the ability again to measure
success really easily, you can see it
with your bare eyes, you don't even need
a microscope, and two amplification. As
you get into these more challenging
problems, you're going to need to be
able to search a larger fraction of the
space to to hit that higher bar.
>> So we can think of these transcription
factors as these basis directions and
you get like a little bit of this thing,
a little bit of that thing, and some
combination. And evolution has designed
these transcription factors to is that
your claim that they're to have the
relatively modular uh self-contained
effects that work in predictable ways
with other transcription factors. And so
um we can use that same handle to uh to
our own ends.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That that would be very much
my contention. And one piece of evidence
for this is that's the way the
development works. You know, it's kind
of a crazy thing to think about, but you
and I were both just like a single cell
and then we were a bag of undifferiated
cells that were all exactly alike. And
then somehow we became humans with
hundreds of different cell types all
doing very different things. And when
you look at how development specifies
those unique fates of cells, it is
through groups of these transcription
factors that each identify a unique
type. And in many cases actually the
groups of transcription factors, the
sets that specify very different fates
are actually pretty similar to one
another. And so evolution has optimized
for being able to just swap one TF in or
swap one TF out of a combination and get
pretty different effects. And so you
have this sort of like local change
leading to local change in sequence or
or gene set space leading to a pretty
large global change in output. And then
likewise many of these TFS again are
duplicated in the genome. And because
mutations are going to be random and
they're inherently small changes at the
level of sequence at a given time,
evolution needs a substrate where in
order to function effectively, these
small changes can give you relatively
large changes in phenotype. Otherwise,
it would just take a very long time
across evolutionary history for enough
mutations to accumulate in some
duplicated copy of the gene for you to
evolve a new TF that does something
interesting. And so, I think we're
actually in most cases in biology due to
that evolutionary constraint. Small
edits need to lead to meaningful
phenotypic changes in a relatively
favorable regime for generic
gradient-like optimizers. You know, it
would be uh maybe a little bit
overstating to say evolution is like
using the gradient, but there is a
system kind of like uh if you've heard
of evolution strategies where uh
basically the way you optimize
parameters is you can't take a gradient
on your loss. So you make a bunch of
copies of your parameters, you randomly
modify them and then you compute a
gradient on your parameters against your
loss and so you can take a gradient in
that space. That's kind of how I imagine
evolution is working. And so you need
lots of those little edits to actually
lead you in to have meaningful step
sizes in terms of the ultimate output
that you have.
>> Interesting. uh you're just like
designing the Laura that goes on top of
uh
>> yeah yeah in a way and to think like you
know why would transcription factors
maybe this is getting a little bit too
gigabrained about it but like why is the
genome even have transcription factors
like what's the point why not just have
every time you want a new cell type you
like engineer some new cassette of genes
or some new totally denovo set of
promoters or something like this I think
one possible explanation for their
existence rather than just an
appreciation for for their for their
presence is that while having
transcription factors allows a very
small number of base pair edits at the
substrate of the genome to lead to very
large phenotypic differences. If I break
a transcription factor, I can delete a
whole cell type in the body. If I
retarget a transcription factor to
different genes, I can dramatically
change when cells respond and have, you
know, hundreds of their downstream
aector genes change their behavior in
response to the environment. And so it
puts you in this regime where
transcription factors are a really nice
substrate to manipulate as targets for
medicines. In some ways, they might be
like evolution's levers upon the broader
architecture of the genome. And so, by
pulling on those same levers that
evolution has gifted us, there are
probably many useful things we can
engender upon biology.
>> Yeah, you're you're sort of hinting that
uh if we analogize it to some code base,
we're going to find a couple lines that
are like commented out that's like
daging, you know, and then like unhyen
on parenthesis. And
>> I don't know about that, but if I can
give you can I'll give you like a real
cringe analogy that sometimes I deploy,
but it requires a very special audience.
I think you'll probably be the one who
fits into it.
>> You're you're flattering our uh
listeners.
>> Only cringe listeners will appreciate
it, but your audience will love this.
>> I don't know about your audience, but
but you will. Um you can kind of think
about it like, you know, if you think
about how attention works, like queries,
keys, values.
>> TFs are kind of like the queries, the
genome sequences they bind to are kind
of like the keys. Genes are kind of like
the values. And it turns out that
structure then allows you to very
efficiently in terms of editing space.
you can change just one of those
embedding vectors in this case one of
those sequences and get dramatically
different performances or title total
outputs and so I do think it's kind of
interesting how these structures recur
throughout biology you know in the same
way that the attention mechanism seems
to exist in some neural structures I
think it's kind of interesting that you
can very easily see how that same sort
of querying and information storage
might exist in the
>> interesting yeah a previous guest and a
mutual friend Trenton Burkin has a had
did a paper in grad school about how uh
the brain implements
attention.
>> Yeah. Or Eddie Chang has found like
positional encodings probably exist in
humans using neuropixels. If you haven't
read these papers, oh yeah, he so he
implants these neuropixel probes into
individuals and then he's able to, you
know, talk to them, look at them as they
read sentences. And what he finds is
that there seem to be certain
representations which function as a
positional encoding across sentences. So
they fire at a certain frequency and it
just increases as the the sentence goes
on and then like resets. And so it seems
exactly like what what we do when we
train large language models where you've
got some sign
>> function. The way we're going to learn
how the brain works is just like trying
to first principles engineer
intelligence and AI and it just like
happens to be the case that each one of
these things has a neural correlate.
Gemini CLI just oneshotted an automated
producer for me in one hour. Basically,
I wanted this interface where I could
just paste in a raw episode transcript
and then get suggestions for Twitter
clips and titles and descriptions and
some other copy all of which
cumulatively takes me about half a day
to write. Honestly, it was just
extremely good. I described the app I
wanted and then asked Gemini to talk
through how I would go about
implementing it. It walked through its
plans. It asked me for input where I
hadn't been sufficiently clear. And
after we ironed out all the details,
Gemini just literally oneshotted the
full working application with fully
functional backend logic. Making this
app literally took 10 minutes, including
installing CLI. Then I spent 15 minutes
fine-tuning the UI, messing around. And
by the way, this process did not involve
me actually editing or even looking at
any of the code. I would just tell
Gemini how I wanted things moved around
and the whole UI would change as Gemini
rewrote the files. Despite building and
then fine-tuning an entire working
application, the session context didn't
even get 10% exhausted. This is just a
super easy and fast way to turn your
ideas into useful applications. You can
check out Gemini CLI on GitHub to get
started. All right, back to Jacob. If
you're right that transcription factors
are the modality evolution has used to
have complex phenotypic effects optimize
for different things. Two-part question.
One, why haven't pathogens which have a
strong interest in having complex
phenotypic effects on your body also
utilized the um transcription factors as
the way to you over and steal your
resources? And two, we've been trying to
design drugs for centuries. Why aren't
all the big drugs, the top selling
drugs, ones that just um modulate
transcription factors?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Why don't we have a million
of these pills? Okay, I'll try and take
those in stride. And they're pretty
different answers. First answer is there
actually are pathogens that that utilize
transcription factors as part of their
life cycle. So like a famous example of
this is HIV. HIV encodes a protein
called TAT. And TAT actually activates
NFCAPPA B. And so HIV, sorry to back up
a little bit, is a retrovirus. Starts
out as RNA, turns itself into DNA,
shoves itself into the genome of your
CD4CT cells. And so then it needs this
ornate machinery to actually control
when does it make more HIV and when does
it go latent so it can hide and your
immune system can't clear it out. And
this is why HIV is so pernicious is you
can kill every single cell in the body
that's actively making HIV with like a
really good drug, but then a few of them
that have like lingered and hunkered
down just turn back on. And so people
call this the latent reservoir. Same
with HEP B, right?
>> Well, HEP B and HEPS can both do this
sort of like latent sort of behavior.
Um, and so HIV is probably the most
pernicious of these. And one way it does
it is this gene called TAT actually
interacts with NFCappa B. NFCappa B is a
master transcription factor within
immune cells. Typically, if I'm going to
like horribly reduce what it does, and
some immunologists can can crucify me
later, it like increases the
inflammatory response of most cells.
They become more likely to attack given
pathogens around them on the margin. Um,
and so it'll turn on an FCAPA B activity
and then uses that to drive its its own
transcription and its own life cycle.
And so it I can't remember quite all the
details now exactly of how it works, but
part of this circuitry is what allows it
to in some subset of cells where some of
that upstream transcription factor
machinery in the host might be
deactivated, it goes latent. And so as
long as the population of cells it's
infecting always has a few that are like
turning off the transcription factors
upstream that drive its own
transcription, then HIV is able to
persist in this latent reservoir within
human cells. So that's just one example
offhand. Then there are a number of
other pathogens and and unfortunately I
don't have quite as much molecular
detail on some of these, but they will
interface with other parts of the cell
that eventually result in transcription
factor transllocation to the nucleus and
then transcription factors being active.
This actually segus a little bit to your
second question on why aren't there more
medicines targeting TFS? In a way, I
think many of our medicines ultimately
downstream are leading to changes in TF
activity, but we haven't been able to
directly target them due to their
physical location within cells. And so
we go several layers upstream. If you
think about how a cell works in sensing
its environment, it has many receptors
on the surface. It has the ability to
sense mechanical tension and things like
this. And ultimately most of what these
signaling pathways lead to is to tell
the cell use some different genes than
you're using right now. That's often
what's occurring. And so that ultimately
leads to transcription factors being
some of the final aectors in these
signaling cascades. So a lot of the
drugs we have that for instance inhibit
a particular cytoine that might bind a
receptor or they block that receptor
directly or maybe they hit a certain
signaling pathway. Ultimately, the way
that they're exerting their effect is
then downstream of that signaling
pathway, some transcription factor is
either being turned on or not turned on,
and you're using different genes in the
cell. And so, we're kind of taking these
like crazy bank shots because we can't
hit the TFS directly. So, that sort of
begs the question like why can't you
just go after the TF directly?
Traditionally, we use what are called
small molecule drugs where they're
defined just by their size. The reason
they have to be small is they need to be
small enough to wiggle through the
membrane of a cell and get inside. And
then you run into a challenge, which is
if you want to actually stick a small
molecule between two proteins that have
a pretty big interface, meaning like
they've got big swaths on the side of
them that all, you know, sort of line up
and and uh form a synapse with one
another, then you would need a big
molecule in order to inhibit that. And
it turns out that TF's binding DNA is a
pretty darn big surface. And so small
molecules aren't great at disrupting
that and certainly even worse at
activating it. So small molecules can
get all the way into the nucleus, but
they can't do much once they're there.
They're just too small. And then the
other classic modalities we have are
recombinant proteins. We make a protein
like a hormone in a big vat. We grow it
in some Chinese hamster ovary cells. We
extract it. We inject it into you. This
is how for instance like human insulin
works that we make today. Or you make
antibodies. Antibodies produced by the
immune system. These run around and find
proteins that have a particular
sequence. They bind to it and often they
just like stop it from working by
glomming a big thing onto the side. So
those are too big to get through the
cell membrane. So then they can't
actually get to a TF or do anything
directly. So we take these bank shots.
So what changes that today and why I
think it's pretty exciting is we now
have new nucleic acid and genetic
medicines where you can for instance
deliver RNAs to a cell that can get
through using tricks like lipid
nanoparticles. You wrap them in a fat
bubble looks kind of like a cell
membrane. It can fuse with a cell put
the mRNAs in the cytool you can make a
copy of a transcription factor there and
then it transllocates the nucleus the
same way a natural one would and exerts
its effect. And likewise, there are
other ways to do this using things like
viral vectors. But I think we've only
very recently actually gotten the tools
we need to start addressing
transcription factors as first class
targets rather than treating them as
like uh maybe some ancillary third order
thing that's going to happen.
>> Interesting. So the drugs we have can't
target them, but your claim is that a
lot of drugs actually do work by binding
to the things we actually can target and
those having some effect on
transcription factors. So this brings us
to questions about delivery which is the
next thing I want to ask you. You
mentioned lipid nanoparticles. This is
what the co vaccines were made of. The
ultimate question if we're going to work
on deaging is how do we make every
single cell in the body? Even if you
identify what is the right transcription
factor to deage a cell and even if
they're shared across cell types or you
figure out the right one for every
single cell type, how do you get it to
every single cell in the body? Um, yeah,
how do we how do
>> how do you deliver stuff? How do you get
them in there? So, I think there are
many ways one could imagine solving it.
I'll sort of like narrow the scope of
the problem to saying I think delivering
nucleic acid is a pretty good first
order primitive. Ultimately, the
genome's nucleic acids. The RNAs that
come out of it are nucleic acids. So, if
you can get nucleic acid into a cell,
you can drug pretty much anything in the
genome effectively. So, you can reduce
this problem to asking how do I get
nucleic acids wherever I want them to
any cell type very specifically. So
today there are two main modalities that
people use, both of which have some
downsides. The first one that we've
touched on already is lipid
nanoparticles. These are basically fat
bubbles and by default they get taken up
by tissues which take up fat like the
liver. Um and they can be used sort of
like Trojan horses. They can release
some arbitrary nucleic acid usually RNA
maybe encoding your favorite genes in
our case transcription factors into the
cell types of interest. You can play
with the fats and you can also tie stuff
onto the outside of the fat like you can
attach a part of an antibbody for
example to make it go to different cell
types in the body and I think the field
is making a lot of progress on being
able to target various different cell
types with lipid nanop particles. So
even if nothing else worked for the next
several decades I think companies like
ours would have more than enough
problems to solve and with the cells
that we can actually target. Another
prominent way people go after this is
using viral vectors. The basic idea
being viruses had a lot of evolutionary
history and very large population sizes.
They've evolved to get into our cells.
Maybe we can learn something from them.
Even better Trojan horses. So, one type
of virus people use a lot, it's called
an AAV. Those AAVs um carry DNA genomes
and so you can get genes, whole genes
into cells that they've got some
packaging sizes. You can think of it
kind of like a very small delivery
truck, so you can't put everything you
want into it. They can go to certain
cell types as well. And then on top of
just where do you actually get the
nucleic acid to begin with, you can
engineer the sequences a bit. And that
basically allows you to add like a a
notgate on it. You can make it turn off
the nucleic acid in certain cell types,
but you're never going to use the
sequence engineering to get nucleic acid
into cells where it didn't get delivered
in the first place. So you can sort of
start broad with your delivery vector
and then use sequence to narrow down to
make it more specific, but not the other
way around.
>> So I think both of those methods are
super promising. Again, if nothing else
emerged for decades, we'd still have
tons and tons of problems as a
therapeutic development community to
solve even using just those. I do think
I have one sort of very controversial
opinion which, you know, people can
roast me for later.
>> You have just one.
>> You're trying to solve aging. I think
you have only one.
>> I have many controversial opinions. One
of them is that I think both of these
probably in the limit will not be the
way that we're delivering medicines in
the year 2100.
>> Um, if you think about viral vectors, no
matter what, there always going to be
some amount some amount of immunogenic.
um you're always going to have your
immune system trying to fight them off.
You can play tricks, you can try and
cloak them, etc., etc., but they're
always going to have some toxicity risk.
They also don't go everywhere. It's not
that we have examples of like a single
viral species that infects every cell
type in the body and we just need to
engineer it to make it safe. It's we
would have to also engineer the virus to
go to new cell types. So, there's some
limitations there. LMPS likewise have
some problems. They can go to tons of
cell types. That's what largely we're
working on. We're super excited about
it. But, there are some physical
constraints. They just have a certain
size and they have to get from your
bloodstream out of your bloodstream
toward a given target cell and they have
to not fuse into any of the other cells
along the way. So there's a whole gamut
they have to run. Ultimately, I think
we're probably going to have to solve
delivery the way that our own genome
solved delivery. So we have this same
problem that arose during evolution,
which is how do I patrol the body, find
arbitrary signals in the environment,
and then deliver some important cargo
there when some set of events happens.
how do I you know find a specific place
and only near those cell types release
my cargo and really the the problem was
solved by the immune system. So we have
cell types in our body T- cells and B
cells which are effectively engineered
by evolution to run around invaginate
whatever tissues they need to. They can
climb almost anywhere in the bodies.
There's nowhere they can't get access
almost and then once they sense a
particular set of signals and they've
got a very ornate circuitry to do this.
They run basically an ANDgate logic.
They can release a specified payload.
And right now, the way our genome sets
them up, the payload they release is
largely either uh enzymes that will kill
some cell that they're targeting or kill
some pathogen or some signal flares that
call in other parts of the immune system
to do the same thing. So, that's super
cool. But you can think about it as a
modular system that evolution's already
gifted us. We've got some signal and
environmental recognition systems. So,
we can find particular areas of the body
that we want to find and then some sort
of payload delivery system. I can
deliver some arbitrary set of things.
And I imagine if we were to like rip von
Winkle ourselves into 2100 and wake up,
the way we will be delivering these
nucleic acid payloads is actually by
engineering cells to do it to perform
this very ornate function. Those cells
might actually live with you. You
probably will get engrafted with them
and they might persist with you for many
years. They deliver the medicine only
when the environment within your body
actually dictates that you need it. And
so you'll actually won't be seeing a
physician every time this medicine is
active. Rather, you'll have a more
ornate responsive circuit. The other
exciting thing about cells is that
they're big and they have big genomes.
And so you actually have a large pallet
to encode complex infrastructure and
complex circuitry. So you don't need to
limit yourself to like the very small
RNAs you can get in that might encode a
gene or two or in our case a few
transcription factors. You don't have to
limit yourself to this tiny AAV genome
that's only a few kilobases. You've got
billions of base pairs to play with in
terms of encoding all your logic. So I
think that's ultimately how delivery
will get solved. We've got many many
stepping stones along the way. But if I
could like clone myself and work on an
even riskier endeavor, that's probably
what I would do.
>> This is actually in in I mean in a way
we treat cancer this way with CARTT
therapy, right? We take the tea cells
out and then we tell them go find a
cancer with this receptor and kill it.
But is the reason that works is that the
cancer cells we're trying to target are
also free floating in the blood. And is
that what it targets? Basically, um
could this deliver to literally every
single cell in the body? Not literally
every single cell. I'll like asterisk it
there. So, example, tea cells don't go
into your brain. You don't have they
can, but it's generally a pathology when
they get in there. So, it's not like
literally every cell, but almost every
cell in your body is surveiled by the
immune system. So, there are very very
few what we call immune privileged
compartments in your body. It's things
like the joints of your knees and your
shoulders, your eyeball, and your brain
basically. Um, there might be a couple
others. I think the ear probably falls
into that category. A funny way of
thinking about this is all the gene
therapy people using viruses they want
to deliver to the immune privilege
compartments because their their drugs
are immunogenic and they're limited to a
very very small set of diseases. So in a
way it's like the shadow of all the
diseases you can't address with viruses
is what you can address with cells and
given the complimentarity between them
it's like okay you can probably cover
the entire body. Um, and so they can't
literally go everywhere. But I think
your analogy to to the the carti work is
is very apt as well, where you can think
about of that two component system. I've
got some detection mechanism for the
environment I want to sense to perform
some function and then I have some sort
of payload that I deliver. Cartis
engineer the first of those and leave
the second exactly the same as the
immune system does. So they engineer go
recognize this other antigen that you
wouldn't usually target some protein on
the surface of a cell for instance and
then deliver the payload you would
usually deliver if it was infected by a
virus or if you saw that it was foreign
in some way whereas cancer cells usually
don't actually look that foreign. Most
of their genes are the same genes that
are in your normal genome and that's why
it's hard for the immune system.
>> Interesting. You know, it's funny that
whenever we're trying to cure infectious
diseases, we just have to deal with,
viruses have been evolving for
billions of years with our, you know,
oldest common ancestor and they know
exactly what they're doing and it's so
hard. Um, and then whenever we're trying
to do something else, we're like,
the immune system has been evolving for
billions of years and it knows what it's
doing and how do we get past it?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. The red the red queen race is like
quite sophisticated and if you want to
just like throw a new tool into biology,
you somehow have to get around one side
of that equation,
>> right? given the fact that it's um some
mixture somewhere between impossible and
very far away uh and it's necessary for
full curing of aging. Um does that mean
that in the short run in the next few
decades we'll have some parts of our
body which will have these amazing
therapies and then other parts which
will just be stuck the way they are. So
you mentioned hpatocytes are some of the
cells that you're able to uh actually
study and or deliver to and these are
liver cells. So you're saying look I can
get drunk as much as I want and it's not
going to have uh an impact on my longr
run liver health because then you'll
just inject me with this therapy but for
the rest of my body it's going to age as
normal. Um what is the implication of
the fact that the delivery seems to be
lagging much behind your understanding
at some point your understanding of
aging? Yeah, ju just to give give the
delivery folks credit, they're currently
ahead. There are currently no
reprogramming medicines for aging and
there are medicines that deliver nucleic
acids. So like they're still winning the
race against us right now, but but to
your point, I hope the lines cross. I
hope we over out compete them.
>> Um, so I do think actually even if you
were able to only target some subsets of
cells, it's not that you would see like
this strange Frankensteinian benefit in
health in some aspects and and lack of
benefit entirely in others. I think what
we found across the history of medicine
is that actually the body's an
incredibly interconnected complex
system. And if you're able to rescue
function even in one cell type in one
tissue, you often have knock-on benefits
in many places that you didn't initially
anticipate. One way we can get examples
of this is is through transplant
experiments. So both in bone marrow and
in liver, for example, we have fairly
common transplant procedures that occur
in humans. And so we can compare old
humans who get livers from young people
or old people and in a way ask a pretty
controlled question. What occurs as a
function of just having a young liver?
Is it that for example you can eat a lot
of fatty food and drink a lot and be
fine or is it that actually you see
broader benefits? And the latter seems
to be true. They have reduced risk of
several other diseases and overall
better survival as a function of having
a younger liver than they do for an
older one. suggesting that actually
because these tissues are so
interconnected many of these organs like
the liver like your atapost tissue or
endocrine organs they're also sending
out signals to many other places in your
body helping coordinate your health
across multiple tissue systems even just
one tissue can benefit other feature
other tissue systems in your body at the
same time hs are another example where
there are many circumstances where one
of the and I'll summarize this is uh
mostly examples taken from a wonderful
book by Frederick Applebomb who uh
trained with Don Thomas the physician
who invented human bone marrow
transplants. Um there are many
circumstances where patients got a bone
marrow transplant and actually cured
another disease they had as a result
maybe unanticipated where it's even just
the replacement of this one special cell
type HSC's has knock-on effects
throughout the body. You know there were
symptoms of these diseases that
presented in myriad ways throughout
their system but ultimately its root
cause was even just a single cell. Um
there are counter examples as well where
you can go into animals and break even
just one gene in one specific subset of
T- cells. You can break a gene in their
that encodes for a transcription factor
in their mitochondria called Trem and
you actually dramatically shorten the
lifespan of mice. One gene in one
special type of sea cells can give you
that type of pathology. And so the it
sort of implies the inverse may also
exist.
>> Is this related to why has so many
downstream positive effects that seem
even not totally related to its um
effects just on making you leaner? Yeah,
I think it's one one example because
it's a it is a hormone and your
endocrine system coordinates a lot of
the complex interplay between your
tissues. I don't think the story is
fully written yet on exactly why GLP-1
and GIP one, you know, broadly
incredinatic medicines like Ompic have
so many knock-on benefits, but I think
they're a great example of this
phenomenon. If someone told you, I'm
going to find a single molecule and I'm
going to drug it and it's not only going
to have benefits for weight loss, but
also for cardiovascular disease, also
possibly for addictive behavior and
maybe even preventing ner degeneration.
You would have told them they were
crazy. And yet, just by acting on the
small number of cells in your body which
are receiving this signal, the interplay
and the communication between those
cells and the rest of your body seems to
have many of these knock-on benefits.
So, it's just one existence proof. Very
small numbers of cells in your body can
have health benefits everywhere. Um, and
so even if cellular delivery does not
emerge by 2100, as I imagine it will,
then I still think that you're going to
have the ability to add decades of
healthy life to individuals by
reprogramming the age of individual cell
types and individual tissues.
>> Interesting. How big will the payload
have to be?
>> Uh, how many transcription factors?
>> Yeah,
>> I think just a countable number. I think
some of those that we found today that
have efficacy are, you know, somewhere
between one and five and that that's a
small enough number that you can
encapsulate it in current mRNA
medicines. Um so already in the clinic
today there are medicines that deliver
many different genes as RNA. Um so there
are medicines where for instance it's a
vaccine as a combination of flu and
COVID proteins and they're delivering 20
different unique transcripts all at the
same time. And so when you think about
that already as a medicine that's being
injected into people in trials, the idea
of delivering just a few transcription
factors is seemingly quotient. And so
thankfully I don't think we'll be
limited by the size of the payloads that
one can deliver. One other really cool
thing about transcription factors is
that the indogenous biology is very
favorable for drug development. The
expression level of transcription
factors in your genome relative to other
genes is incredibly low. So if you just
look at like the rankordered list of
what are the most frequently expressed
genes in the genome by the count of how
many mRNAs are in the cell,
transcription factors are like near the
bottom. And that means you don't
actually need to get that many copies of
a transcription factor into a cell in
order to have benefits. And so what
we've seen so far and what I imagine
will continue to play out is that even
fairly low doses of these medicines,
which are well within the realm of of
what folks have been taking for now more
than a decade, um are are able to induce
really strong efficacy. And so we're
hopeful that not only will the actual
size of the payload in terms of like
number of base pairs not be limiting,
but the dose shouldn't be limiting
either.
>> And is it would it have to be a chronic
treatment or could it just be a onetime
dose?
>> In principle, it could be one time. I
think that would be an overstatement for
today, but I can sort of talk you
through the evidence from like the first
principles back to the reality of like
what's the hardest thing we have in
hand.
>> So epigenetic reprogramming is basically
how the cell types in our bodies right
now are able to adopt the identities
that they have. And the existence proof
that those epigenetic reprogramming
events can last decades is that my
tongue doesn't spontaneously turn into a
kidney. Um so these epigenetic marks can
persist for decades throughout a human
life or you know hundreds of years if
you want to take the example of a
bowhead whale which uses the same the
same mechanism. Um and we also know that
with very targeted edits other groups
have done this folks like Luke Gilbert
now at the Arc Institute who I think of
as like one of the the great unsung
scientists of our time um have been able
to make a targeted edit in a single
locus and then show that you can
actually make cells divide 400 plus
times over multiple years in an
incubator in the lab. So imagine like a
hot house where you're just trying as
hard as you can to break this mark down
and it can actually persist for many
years. Um other companies have actually
now dosed some editors similar to the
ones that that Luke developed in his lab
in monkeys and shown they last at least
a couple years. So in principle the
upper bound here is really long. You you
could potentially have one dose and it
lasts a very long time. You know
potentially decades as long as it took
you to age the first time maybe. We
don't have data like that today. So I
don't want to overstate. Um, we do have
data that these positive effects can
last several weeks after a dose. And so
you could imagine even without many
leaps of faith up toward this upper
bound limit of what's possible just from
the data we have in hand now that you
could get doses, you know, every month,
every few months, and actually have
really dramatic benefits that persist
over time rather than needing, for
instance, to get an IV every day, which
might not be tractable. So, we've got
1600 transcription factors in the human
genome. Is it worth looking at nonhuman
TFs and seeing what effects they might
have or are they unlikely to be the
right search base?
>> I think it's less likely. I think you
have a prior that evolution has given
you a reasonable basis set for
navigating the states that human cells
might want to occupy. And in our case,
we know that the state we're trying to
access is encoded by some combination of
these TFS. It it does arise in
development. Obviously, we're trying to
make an old cell look young, not look
like some Frankenstein cell that's never
been seen before.
>> That said, we don't have any guarantees
that the way aging progresses is by
following the same basis set of these
transcription factor programs in the
genome that are encoded during
development. So, I don't think it's
unreasonable to ask, would your eventual
ideal reprogramming medicine necessarily
be a composition of the natural TFS or
would it encode include something like
TFS from other organisms as you posit or
even entirely synthetic transcription
factors as well? things like supers
socks. Supers socks is a particular
publication from Sergey I mispronounced
his last name Vichenko where they
mutated the socks tube gene and they
made more efficient iPSC-c
reprogramming. So they could take
sematic cells and turn them into pur
potentotent stem cells more effectively
than you could with just the the
canonical yamaka factors which are oct4
and mick. IPS-C reprogramming never
happens in nature. So there's no reason
to necessarily believe that the natural
TFS are optimal. And so even really
simple optimizations like just
mutagenizing one of the four Yamanaka
factors we already know about or
swapping some domains between a few TFs
seem to improve things dramatically. So
I think that's a pretty good signal that
actually there's a lot of gradient to
climb here and the potentially for us
the endstate products we're developing
in 2100 are more like synthetic genes
that have never existed rather than just
compositions of the natural set. What
about the effects of aging which are um
okay so I don't know your skin starts to
sag because of the effects of gravity
over the course of decades. Is that a
cellular process? How would how would
some cellular therapy deal with that?
>> The best evidence is that it's probably
not cellular. So the reason your skin
sags is there's a protein in your skin
called elastin which does exactly what
you'd think it would based on the name.
It kind of keeps your skin elasticy like
a waistband and holds it to your face.
>> So you have these big polymer
polymerized fibers of elastin in your
face. And as far as we understand it,
you only polymerize it and form a long
fiber during development. And then the
rest of your life, you make the
individual units of the polymer, but
they for reasons no one, as far as I can
tell, understands, they they fail to
polymerize. And you can't like make new
long cords to hold your skin up to your
face. So I think the eventual solution
for something like that is likely that
you need to program cells to states that
are extra physiological. There might not
be a cell in your body. It's not just
like a young skin cell from a
20-year-old is better at making these
fibers. As far as we can tell, they
don't. Um, but you could probably
program a cell to be able to
reinvigorate that polymerization process
to run along the fiber and repair it in
places where it's damaged. Obviously,
these things get made during
development. So, it's totally physically
feasible for this to occur. Maybe
there's even a developmental state which
would be sufficient to achieve this. I
don't think anyone knows, but that would
be the kind of state that one might have
to engineer denovo even if our genome
doesn't necessarily encode for it
explicitly.
>> Interesting. Okay. What is Arum's law?
Iram's law is a funny portman who
created by a friend of mine Jack Scanell
where he inverted the notion of Moor's
law which is the doubling of compute
density on uh silicon chips every few
years. So Moore's law has graciously
given us massive increases in compute
performance over several decades. And
Eim's law is the inverse of that because
in bioarma what we're actually seeing is
that there's a very consistent decrease
in the number of new molecular entities.
So new medicines that were able to
invent per billion dollars invested and
this trend actually starts way back in
the 1950s and persists through many
different technological transitions
along the way. So it seems to be an
incredibly consistent feature of trying
to make new medicines. Hm. So, um, in a
weird way, Aram's law is actually very
similar to the scaling laws you have in
ML where you have this very consistent
logarithmic relationship of you throw in
more inputs and you get consistently
diminishing outputs. Um, the difference
of course is that this trend in ML has
been um used to raise exponentially more
investment um and to drive more hype
towards AI. Whereas in biotech um you
know modular new limits new round it it
has driven down valuations driven down
excitement and energy with AI at least
you can sort of internalize the extra
cost and the extra benefits because
there's this general purpose model
you're training so this year you spent
$100 million training a model next year
a billion dollars the year after that 10
billion but it's one general purpose
model unlike we made money on this drug
and now we're going to use that money to
invest in 10 different drugs in 10
different bespoke ways. Okay. Anyways, I
was gearing up to ask you what would a
general purpose platform where even if
you had diminishing returns, at least
you can have this sort of like less
bespoke way of designing drugs look like
for biotech.
>> Okay, I'm going to slightly dodge your
question first to maybe analyze
something really interesting that you
highlighted which is you have these two
phenomena again ML scaling and then
scaling in terms of the cost for new
drug discovery. Why is it that the
patterns of investment have been so
different? I think there are probably
two key features that might explain this
difference. one is that the returns to
the scaled output in the case of ML
actually are expected to increase super
exponentially if you actually reach AGI
it's going to be a much larger value
than just even a few logs back on the
performance curve that that people are
following whereas in the life sciences
thus far each of those products we're
generating further and further out on
the e- room slot curve as time moves
forward haven't necessarily scaled in
their potential revenue and their
potential returns quite so much and so
you're seeing these increased costs not
counterbalanced by increased ROI The
other piece of it that you highlighted
is that unlike building a general model
where potentially by making larger
investments, you're going to be able to
solve a broader addressable market,
moving from solving very narrow tasks to
eventually replacing large fractions of
white collar intelligence.
>> In biotech, when you're traditionally
able to develop a medicine in a given
indication, I was able to treat disease
X. It doesn't necessarily engender you
to be able to then treat disease Y more
readily. Typically where these firms,
biotech firms in general have been able
to develop unique expertise is on making
molecules to target particular genes. So
I'm really good at making a molecule
that intervenes on gene X or gene Y. And
it turns out that the ability to make
those molecules more rapidly isn't
actually reducing the largest risk in
the process. And so this means that the
ability to go from one or two outputs
one year to then going to four the next
is much more limited. And so this brings
us then to the question of what would
the general model be in biology? And I
think it kind of reduces down to how do
you actually imbue those two properties
that create the ML scaling law curve of
hope and you know bring those over to
biology so that you can take the rooms
law curve and potentially give it the
same sort of of potential beneficial
spin. So I think there are a few
different versions of this you could
imagine but I'll address the first
point. How do you get to a place where
you're actually able to generate more
revenue per medicine so that potentially
the outputs you're generating are more
valuable even if each output might cost
a bit more. Traditionally, when we've
developed medicines, we go after fairly
narrow indications, meaning diseases
that fairly small numbers of of people
get. And that's actually increased in
terms of the narrow scope of what
medicines are addressing as we've gone
forward in time. And so, this is sort of
an ironic situation where we've gone
from addressing pretty broad categories
of disease like infectious disease to
narrower and narrower genetically
defined diseases that have small patient
populations because these only affect a
few people. If you think about the value
function of a medicine is, you know, how
many years of healthy life does it give
how many people? If how many people is
pretty small, it just really bounds the
amount of value you're able to generate.
>> So, you need to then be able to find
medicines that treat most people. All of
us will one day get sick and die. So,
arguably the TAM for any really
successful medicine could be everybody
on planet Earth. Um, so we need to find
a way to be able to route toward
medicines that address these very large
populations. The second piece then is
how do we actually build models that
enable us to take the success in one
medicine we've developed and lead that
to an increased probability of success
on the next medicine. Traditionally, we
haven't been able to do that. Maybe
you're better at making an antibbody for
gene Y because you made one for gene X 5
years ago, but it turns out making an
antibbody isn't really the hard part of
drug discovery. Figuring out what to
make an antibbody to target is the hard
thing about drug discovery. What gene do
I intervene upon in order to actually
treat a disease in a given patient? Most
of the time we just don't know. And so
that's why even if a given drug firm
becomes very good at making antibodies
to gene X, they have a successful
approval. When they then go to treat
disease Y, they don't necessarily know
what gene to go after. And most of the
risk is not in how do I make an
antibbody to treat my particular target.
It's in figuring out what to target in
the first place.
>> I'm not sure how to understand uh this
claim that we don't, you know, we know
how to engage with the right hook. We
just don't know what that hook is
supposed to do in the body. I don't know
if that's the way you'd describe it.
With another claim that I've seen that,
you know, with small molecules, we have
this Goldilocks problem where they had
to be small enough to uh percolate
through the body and through cell walls
etc., but big enough to interfere with
like protein for interactions that
transcription factors might have or
something. So there it seems like
getting the hook is the big problem.
Yeah. In this particular case, if we we
bound ourselves to we must use small
molecules as our modality, then there
are lots of targets which are very
difficult to drug. There are many other
modalities by which you can drug some of
these genes. And I would say I don't
have a formal way of explaining this.
that if you were to write out a list of
well-known targets that many many folks
would agree are the correct genes to go
after and to try and inhibit or activate
in order to treat a given set of
diseases and the only reason we don't
have medicines is that we can't figure
out a trick in order to be able to drug
them. It's a fairly small list. It would
probably fit on a single page. Whereas
the number of possible indications that
one could go after and the number of
possible genes that one could intervene
upon, especially when you consider their
combinations, is astronomical. I think,
you know, the experiment you could run
here is if you lock 10 really smart drug
developers in a room and you tell them
to write down some incredibly high
conviction target disease pairs where
they're sure if they modulate this
biology, these patients are going to
benefit and all they need is some
molecular hook as as you put it in order
to do this. It's a relatively short
list. What you're not going to get is
anything approximating the paniply of
human pathologies that develop. And you
can actually look for this. There are
some existence proofs you can look for
out in the universe. Which is to say, if
the only problem was that we didn't have
the ability to drug something using
current therapeutics that we can put in
humans, we should still be able to treat
it in the best animal models of that
disease because we can use things like
transgenic systems. You can go in and
you can engineer the genome of that
animal. And so this gives you all sorts
of superpowers that you don't have in
patience but allow you to for instance
turn on arbitrarily complex groups of
genes in arbitrarily specific or broad
groups of cells in the organism at any
time you want at any dose you want in
the animal and for the majority of
pathologies we just don't have many of
those examples.
>> Okay. So then what's the do you what is
the answer to what is the general
purpose um
>> the general purpose model like how
>> every marginal discovery increases the
odds you make the next discovery or
something like that.
>> So there are multiple ways one might
approach this problem. the most common
today. Um, this is often what people are
describing when they talk about a
virtual cell. This is sort of a a very
nebulous idea, sometimes numinous if
you'll let me describe it in that way as
well. Um, but I think most concretely
what most people are trying to do is
measure some number of molecules or some
sort of uh perceived emissions like the
morphology of a cell and then perturb it
many times, turn some genes on, turn
some genes off and measure how that
molecular morphological state changes.
The notion is that there's a lot of
mutual information in biology. So if I
measure something like most commonly all
the genes the cell is using at a given
moment which you can get by RNA
sequencing that I get a decent enough
picture of most of the other complexity
going on. And so that I can for instance
take a bunch of healthy cells and a
bunch of cells that are in a diseased or
age state and I'm able then to compare
those profiles and say okay my disease
cells use these genes, my healthy cells
use these. Are there anti-interventions
I can find that I'm able to do
experimentally in the lab that shift one
toward the other? And then the hope
would be because you're not never going
to be able to scan combinatorily all the
possible groups of genes just to to make
that concrete there. I'm just going to
be be round with it, but there's
something like 20,000 genes in the
genome. You can then choose, you know,
however many genes in your combination
you want. It's not crazy to think of
hundreds at a time. That's what
transcription factors control. That's
how development works. So the number of
possible combinations is truly
astronomical. You just can't test it
all. So the hope would be that by doing
some sparse sampling of those pairs,
your inputs are here's what the cell
looked like beforehand. Here's the
particular genes I perturbed. You have
some measurement then of the state that
the cell resulted in. So here's which
genes went up. Here's what here's which
went down. And then you can start to ask
once I've trained a model to predict
from the perturbations to the output on
the cell state. What would happen for
some arbitrary combinations of genes?
And now in silic possible things that
one might do and potentially discover
targets that take my disease cells back
to something like healthy cells. So
that's another version of what would a
all-encompassing model look like where
you actually have compounding returns in
drug discovery.
>> Right. And you basically described um
one of the models you guys are working
on at New Limit. You you're training
this model based on this data where
you're taking the entire transcriptto
and just labeling it based on how old
that cell actually is. If you've got all
this data you're collecting on how
different perturbations are having
different phenotypic effects on a cell,
why only record the uh like whether that
effect correlates with more or less
aging? Why can't you also label it with
all the other um effects that we might
eventually care about and eventually get
the full virtual cell? Because that's
the that's the more general purpose um
model, right? that not just the one that
predicts whether a cell looks old or
not.
>> Yeah, absolutely. So I think what we
actually do both today. So we can train
these models where basically the inputs
are a notion of what that cell looked
like at the starting place. Here's what
a generic old cell looked like and then
representations of the transcription
factors themselves. We derive those from
protein foundation models. They're
language models basically trained on
protein sequences. Turns out that gives
you a really good base level
understanding of biology. So the model
is kind of starting from a pretty smart
place. And then you can predict a number
of different targets from some learned
embedding. The same way you can have
multiple heads on a language model. And
so one of those for us is actually just
predicting every gene the cell is
expressing. Can I just recapitulate the
entire state and guess what effect these
transcription factors will have on every
given gene. And you can think about that
as like an objective rather than a value
judgment on the cell. I'm not asking
whether or not I want this particular
transcriptto. I'm just asking what it
will look like.
>> And then we also have something more
like, you know, value judgments. I
believe that that transcriptto looks
like a younger cell and I I'm going to
select on that and train a head to
predict it where I can d noiseise across
genes and then select for younger cells.
But you could do that for arbitrary
numbers of additional heads. What are
some other states you might want? Do I
want to polarize tea cells to a less
inflammatory state in somebody with an
autoimmune disease? Do I want to make
liver cells more functional in a patient
who is suffering from certain types of
metabolic syndrome? Be that, you know,
maybe even orthogonal to the way that
they age. Do I want to go in and change
the way a neuron is functioning to a
different state to treat a particular
type of neuro degenerative disease?
These are all questions you can ask.
They're not the ones we're going after,
but that that is the more general
broader vision.
>> This is so similar to in LLMs. You have
first imitation learning with
pre-training that builds a general
purpose uh representation of the world
and then you do RL about a particular
objective in math or coding or whatever
that you care about and you are
describing an extremely similar
procedure where first you just learn to
predict perturbations in genes to uh
broad effects on the cell and that's
like that's the sort of pre-training
just like learn how cells work
>> and then there's another afterward layer
of these like value judgments of okay
well how would how would we have to
perturb it to have effect X which
actually seems very similar to how do we
get the base model to answer this math
problem or answer this coding problem. I
don't know. Um I don't know if people
usually put it this way, but it actually
just seems like an extremely extremely I
mean that makes me more optimistic on
this because like LLMs work, right? And
RL works.
>> Yeah, they do. Um yeah, I think the
conceptual analogy is very apt. You
know, we don't actually use RL at the
moment, so I don't want to overstate the
level of sophistication we've got, but I
think the general problem reduces down
in a similar way. And so you can think
about, you know, your your earlier
question of what does the general model
look like that enables you to actually
have compounding returns in drug
discovery? Well, you might have
something like this base model which as
you said just predicts this object
function of how are these perturbations
hitting these targets going to change
which genes are turned on and off in
this cell.
>> Then there's an entirely other task
which is well which genes do you want to
turn on and off and what state do I want
the cell to adopt? Our lens on that is
that across many different diseases
people will have age is one of the
strongest predictors of how they're
going to progress whether that disease
arises. And so in many many
circumstances you have evidence in
humans where you can say ah if I could
make the cell younger maybe that's not a
perfect fix but that's going to
dramatically benefit not only patients
who have a diagnosed disease but it
might actually help most of us stay
healthier longer even subcl clinically
before anyone would formally say that
we're sick. Now that's another more
general function. The same way that in
LLMs you might have to create these
particular RLVF environments. You need
to have places where you can, you know,
state a value function of the particular
task that you're trying to optimize for.
In drug discovery, you would then need
to know well what are the cell states I
want to engineer for? That's kind of the
next generation of what a target might
be. Beyond just which genes do I want to
move up and down and which gene
perturbations do I put in, you then need
to know what cell state am I engineering
for? What do I want this to be?
>> A bunch of labelers in Nigeria like
clicking different pictures of cells
like, "Oh, this one looks young. This
one looks old. This one looks really
great." I love that one. Potentially.
Potentially. It's more like
developmental biologists locked in a
room as my friend Cole Trapnel would
say.
>> Um, it seems like what you're describing
seems quite similar to perturb. And
we've had perturb I don't know when it
was done. Uh, what year was it?
>> There were three papers almost
simultaneously in 2016.
>> Okay. So, almost a decade. Um, I don't
know. We're still waiting I guess for
the big breakthrough supposed to cause
uh and this is the same procedure. So
why why is this going to have an effect
that
>> why has this taken so long? Yeah. Yeah.
Good questions. Um so the original
procedure you know was created by a
bunch of brilliant folks. There's a
group in Idamit's lab at the Visman
institute a vivv's lab at the broad
where trade dixit a friend of mine
helped work on this and then Jonathan
Weisman's lab at UCSF where Brit Adamson
did a lot of the early work. They all
constructed this this idea where you can
go in and you label a perturbation that
you're delivering to a cell. So this is
typically a transgenic perturbation,
meaning you're integrating some new gene
into the genome of a cell and that turns
another gene on or off. They used
crisper, but there's lots of ways to do
it and the concept's pretty general. And
then you attach on that new trans gene,
that new gene you put into the genome of
the cell, some barcode that you can read
out by DNA sequencing. So now when you
rip the cells open, you're able to not
only measure every gene they're using,
but you also sequence these barcodes and
you know which genes you turned on and
which are off. So you can then start to
ask questions like, well, I've turned on
genes A and C. What did it do to the
rest of the cell? So that's the general
premise of the technology. And so it's
useful to just set that up because it
explains why this didn't all happen
earlier.
>> One, the actual readout ripping the
cells open and sequencing them used to
be pretty bad and it used to be really
expensive and it's gotten much better
over time. So the metric people often
think about here is like cost per cell
to sequence. It used to be measured in
dollars and now it's measured in cents
and down to the fractions of cents
because that cost curve has made it uh
has improved dramatically. The cost of
sequencing has likewise come down. So
even beyond the actual reagents
necessary to rip the cell open and turn
its mRNAs into DNA that are ready for
the sequencer, now the sequencer is
cheaper. The other piece is actually
getting these genes in and then figuring
out which ones are there started out
pretty bad. So when we started with this
technology, it was a beautiful proof of
concept, but I don't think anyone would
tell you it was 100% ready for prime
time. When you sequence a cell, only
about 50% of the time could you even
tell which perturbation you put in.
Sometimes you just like wouldn't detect
the barcode and you'd have to throw the
cell away or you detect the wrong
barcode and now you've like mislabeled
your data point. So this might sound
like a trivial sort of technical piece,
but imagine you're running this
experiment the old fashioned way where
you test different groups of genes in
different test tubes on a bench. Now
imagine you hired someone who every
other tube labels it wrong. So when you
then collect data from your experiment,
you basically have no idea what happened
because you just like randomized all
your data labels. You wouldn't do much
science and you wouldn't get very far
that way. So a lot of those technologies
have improved to the point where you had
a number of processes which are pretty
inefficient and you multiplied a lot of
these things together and ended up with
like a very small outcome of successful
cells you could actually sequence.
They've all improved to the degree where
now you can actually operate at scale.
And then groups like ours have had to do
a bunch of work in order to actually
enable combinatorial perturbations,
turning on more than just one gene at a
time, which it turns out is much much
harder for the same reason we're just
alluding to. Imagine you're having
trouble figuring out which one gene you
put in the cell and turned on or off.
Now imagine you have to do that five
times correctly in a row. Well, if you
start out with the original sort of
performance of like you could detect
roughly 50% of them, then the fraction
of cells that would be correctly labeled
is like one over two to the n where n is
the number of genes you're trying to
detect. And very quickly it's like more
of your data is mislabeled than
labelled. So there's lots of technical
reasons like this that have gotten
worked out over time. And so only now
are we really able to scale up where
we're able to run experiments that are
in the millions of cells in just a
single day at for instance a small
company like New Limit. There was a
point even just six or seven years ago
where the companies that made these
reagents were publishing the very first
million cell data set just as a proof of
concept and only they could do it as the
constructors of the technology. And now
two scientists in our labs can generate
that in an afternoon. If it actually is
the case that the um this is actually
very similar to the way LLM um dynamics
work then the once this technology is
mature and you get the GPT3 equivalent
of the virtual cell what you would
expect to happen is there's many
different companies that have um you
know are doing these cheap uh perturb
like experiments and building their own
virtual cells or at least a couple um
and then they're like leasing this out
to other people who then have their own
ideas about well we want to see if we
can come up with the labels for this
particular thing we care about and test
for that. What seems like happening
right now is at least at New Limit you
were like we know the end ca end use
case we're going after it would be like
if um cursor or whatever is like we're
gonna in like 2018 is like we're going
to build our own LLM um from scratch so
that we can enable our application
rather than some foundation model
company being like we don't care what
you use it for we're going to build this
um does that make sense like uh it seems
like you're combining two different
layers of the stack um and it's just
because nobody else is doing
>> the other layer and so you're you're
just doing both of them. I don't know
what to extend this analogy maps on, but
>> yeah. Yeah. Maybe to play with the
analogy a bit, imagine that, you know,
you think about New Limit as an LLM
company. If if I'm going to put us in
the shoes of Cursor, which Oh, oh, so I
wish. Um, imagine we're trying to in
2018 create Cursor Tab, but we're not
trying to create a full LLM,
>> right?
>> I'm not I don't know enough about the
underlying mechanics to know if that
would have been feasible, but it's a
much more feasible problem than trying
to create like their most recent cursor
agent or compete with like modern cloud
code, right? I think that's roughly the
equivalent where the problem we're
breaking off is a subset of the more
general virtual cell problem. We're
trying to predict what do groups of
transcription factors do to the age of
very specific types of cells. We only
work on a few cell types at New because
those are the only cell types or some of
the only cell types today we believe we
can get really effective delivery of
medicines.
>> And so we think they're just more
important because we can act on them
today. If we solve the problem of what
TFS to use, we can make a medicine
pretty quickly. So in a way we're
carving out a region of this massive
parameter space and saying if we can
learn the distribution of effects even
just in this small region it's going to
be really effective for us and we can
make really amazing products unlike the
world has ever seen. Um and over time we
can expand to this more general corpus
of predicting every possible gene
perturbation in every possible cell
type. And so I think that's maybe the
way the analogy maps on. But it is true
that we are vertically integrating here.
We're generating our own data in a way
that's proprietary. We think we have a
much much larger data set for this
particular regime than the rest of the
world combined and that enables us to
build what we think are the best models
and in many cases what we found is that
unlike with LLMs where a lot of the data
that was necessary to build these was
sort of uh a common good. It was
produced as a function of the internet
shared across everyone it's pretty
common across all the domains everyone
wants to use it for. This biological
data is still in its infancy. It's like
imagine we're in like the early 1980s
and we are just now thinking about
trying to create some of the first web
pages. That's kind of the era we're in.
And so we're going after generating some
of our own data in this very niche
circumstance like building the very high
quality corpus, the Wikipedia that you
might train your, you know, overly
analogized now LLM on. Um, and then
building the first products based on
that and then expanding from there. And
so we think that's necessary because of
where we are today. there isn't this
internet-like equivalent of data that
everyone can go out and and reap rewards
from.
>> Interesting. And then um this is more
more a question about the broader pharma
industry rather than just new limit
which is that in the future how are
people going to make money if you have
you know with the GLPs we've got
peptides from China that are just a gray
market that people can easily consume
and presumably with these future AI
models even if you have a patent on a
molecule maybe finding an isomorphic
molecule or an isomeorphic treatment is
relatively easy if you do come up with
these crazy treatments and if pharma in
general was able to come up with these
crazy treatments, will they be able to
make money?
>> Mhm. The gray market piece I'll maybe
put aside and say, you know, that's sort
of a um IP enforcement at a geostrategic
level that I'm maybe not qualified to
speak to. But I do think it comes down
to to IP enforcement effectively. Um, I
think for that gray market piece,
another another reason that sort of the
traditional pharmaceutical industry, I
think, will still continue to reap the
majority of rewards here is that most of
the payment in the United States, which
provides most of the revenue for drug
discovery in the world, goes through a
payment system that is not just direct
consumer. It goes through payers. And so
if you have the opportunity to either
like order a sketchy vial off of some
website from some company in Shenzhen or
you can go through your doctor and get a
prescription with a relatively low copay
for tresepide the real thing. I think
most patients will go for trespide. I
think you and I probably live in a millu
of people who are much more comfortable
with ordering the vials from Shenzhen
than most people might be. Um but I I
don't consider that to be a tremendous
concern at large. I do think the the
broader point of if you have medicines
with very long-term durability, how do
you reimburse them or if just the
benefits are very long-term and you know
sort of acrue in the out years a
challenge we have in the US system is
that the average person churns insurers
every 3 to four years that number
fluctuates around but that's the right
order of magnitude and that means that
if for instance you had a medicine which
dramatically reduced the cost of all
other healthcare incidents but it
happened exactly 5 years after you got
dosed with it no insurers technically
economically incentivized to cover that.
>> And so I think there are a couple models
here that can make sense. One is
something called pay for performance
where rather than reimbursing all of the
cost of the drug upfront, you actually
reimburse it over time. So say you get a
medicine that just makes you generically
healthier and you can, you know, measure
the reduced rates of heart attack and
reduced rates of obesity and various
other things and you get this one dose
and it lasts for 10 years. each year you
would pay something like a tenth of the
cost of the medicine contingent on the
idea that it was actually still working
for you and you had some way of
measuring that. So that's a big a big
challenge in this industry is like how
would you demonstrate that any one of
these medicines is still working for the
patient. In the few examples we have
today, these are things like gene
therapies where you can just like
measure the expression of the gene and
like okay the drug is still there. But
it gets more complicated when you have
some of these sort of longer term net
benefits. And the idea would be that
then each insurer is incentivized to
just pay for the time of coverage that
you're on their plan. And we already
have a framework for this in you know
post affordable care act in the US where
you know pre-existing conditions no
longer really exist. So patients are
able to freely move between payers and
you could sort of treat the presence of
one of these therapeutics lowering this
patient's overall healthcare costs the
same way we treat a a pre-existing
condition. I think this is something
that the system is still overall
figuring out. So what I'm saying here is
one hypothesis about what the future
might look like, but I think there are
alternative clever approaches people
might think about for reimbursement. I
also think over time we're going to move
more toward a direct to consumer model
for many of these medicines which
preserve and promote health rather than
just fixing disease. You're seeing what
I think are really some of the most
innovative examples of this right now
from Lily around the incredibly
direct. So for the first time, rather
than going to a pharmacy which interacts
with a PBM which interacts with your
primary care physician, now you can get
a prescription from your doctor, go
straight to Lily, the source of the good
stuff, and you're able to order
high-quality drug from them when not
involve, you know, some intermediary
compounder in the middle that might not
even make your molecules properly. Um,
and I think as these medicines develop
that have actual consumer demand because
you feel it in your daily life, you're
actually seeing a benefit from it. It's
not just something that your physician
is trying to get you to take. that that
model will start to dominate and that
means that this sort of like payment
overtime for some of these long-term
benefits might be able to be abstracted
away from our current payer system where
it turns every few years and now a sort
of like payment overtime plan the same
way we finance other large purchases in
life seems very feasible.
>> The the reason I'm interested in this is
that healthcare is already 20% of GDP. I
think it's grown like notable
percentages in the last few years. It's
like this is a fraction that is quickly
growing. Um, and most of this I I I
should have the numbers I should have
looked the numbers up, but the
overwhelming majority of this is going
to administering treatments that have
already been invented. Um, which is
good, but nowhere near as good as
spending this enormous sum of resources
towards coming up with new treatments
that in the future will improve the
lives of people that will that will have
these ailments. Um, I mean, one question
is just how do we make it so that more
like we're going to spend 20% of GDP on
healthcare, it should at least go
towards like coming up with new
treatments rather than just like paying
nurses and doctors to keep administering
stuff that kind of works now. And two,
if the cost of drugs ends up being at
least from the perspective of the payer
ends up being you need a doctor to give
you some scan and before I can write you
um a prescription and then they need to
administer it and they need to make sure
that you're doing okay, etc., etc., Then
even if for you to manufacture this uh
therapy might cost um you know tens of
dollars per patient for the health care
system overall it might be tens of
thousands of dollars per patient. I
actually I'm curious if you agree with
those orders of magnitude. I
>> I think that's correct. So I think the
stat is something like drugs are roughly
7% of healthcare spend. I I could be a
little bit wrong on that but the the oo
is right.
>> Right. So basically even if we invent
de-agging technology or especially if we
invent aging technology how how should
we think about the way it will net out
in the fraction of GDP that we have to
spend on healthcare will that increase
because now people just had to go
everybody's lining up at the doctor's
office to get a prescription and um you
got to go into clinic every week or will
that decrease because the other
downstream ailments from aging aren't
coming about.
>> I I think the latter is much more likely
to be the case. So just as like some
quick heruristics part of the reason I
think there are many reasons that
healthcare costs so much in the US. One
of them is something like bomb's cost
disease which is you know very unrelated
to pharmaceutical discoveries but you
know is something that we will have to
solve in the system. Part of it's like
the disintermediation of the actual
customer and the actual provider and and
these are things that biotech probably
isn't going to be able to solve as an
industry alone. That's probably a larger
a larger economic problem. But when you
think about how will this affect sort of
the total amount of healthcare that will
need to be delivered, if you have more
of these what I like to think of as sort
of like medicines for everyone,
medicines that keep you healthier longer
rather than medicines that only fix a
problem once you're already very sick, I
think you actually avoid a lot of the
types of administration costs, not just
administration like admins at hospitals,
but the cost of administering existing
medicines and therapies to you going
down. One stat on why I think that's
true. Something like a third of all
Medicare costs are spent in the final
year of life, which is shocking when you
realize that the average person on
Medicare is I don't know the exact
number, but probably a decade plus
covered by it. And so there's an
incredible concentration of the actual
expenses once someone is already
terribly sick.
>> So helping prevent you from ever having
to access the intensive healthare
system, meaning something like an
inpatient hospital visit. If you can
prevent even just a couple of those
visits over a long period of someone's
life with a medicine like an increment,
like a reprogramming medicine that keeps
your liver, your immune system younger,
I think on net that actually starts to
drive health care spend down because
you're you're sort of shifting some of
that burden from the administration
system to the pharmaceutical system. And
the pharmaceutical system is the only
piece of healthare where technology has
made us more efficient. As drugs go
generic, actually the cost of
administering a given unit of healthare
is going down. And the grand social
contract is that they eventually go
generic. That's the way our current IP
system works. So I think you know if you
were to get the question of like when
would you like to be born as a patient.
You always want to be born as close to
today as possible because for a given
unit in terms of pharmaceuticals for a
given dollar unit of expense, you can
access more pharmaceutical technology
today than has ever been possible in
history. Even as healthcare costs
everywhere else in the system have shot
up. And so pharmaceuticals are the one
place where because of the mechanism of
things going generic and the fact that
our old medicines continue to work and
persist over time, you're actually able
to get more benefit per dollar.
>> Okay, final question. Um, so pharma is
spending billions of dollars per new
drug it comes up with and surely they
have noticed that the lack of some
general platform or some general model
has made it more and more expensive and
difficult to come up with new drugs. and
you say perturbed seek has existed since
2016 and you as far as you can tell you
have the most amount of that kind of
data which would could feed into a
general purpose model. So um what is
what is like the traditional farm
industry on the other coast up to if you
if I went to the the head of R&D at Eli
Lilly or Fiser or something do they
think that this is like they have some
different idea of the platform that
needs to be built or they're like no
we're all in on the bespoke game uh
bespoke for each drug.
>> Yeah I so I'll just correct one thing to
make sure I'm not overstating. We have
way more data for a particular the
limited sub problem we're tackling which
is overexpressing TFS in combinations. I
think we have way more data than anyone
on full stop there. But even more
specifically, I feel very very confident
we have more data than anyone looking at
trying to reprogram a cell's age. And so
that's where we're we're way larger than
than the rest of the world. When we
think about just general single cell
perturbation data, various flavors, then
I think there are other groups which
which have very large data sets as well.
We're still differentiated because we do
everything in human cells with the right
number of chromosomes. Whereas it's very
common to do things in like cancer cell
lines which have 200 chromosomes. So
like is that human? I don't know.
Depends on depends on how you actually
quantify these things. Um so then if
you're going to go ask the leaders of of
some of the traditional pharmaceutical
firms like are you trying to build a
general model? I think some of them have
in-house like AI innovation teams that
are working on this. They're really
smart people there. But I think it's a
general trend. I think you can think
about some of the modern pharma a bit
like venture capital firms where they've
over time externalized a lot of their
R&D and so they often have divisions of
external innovation which you can kind
of think of as like the corp dev version
of venture capital. They work with the
biotech ecosystem to have a number of
smaller nimble firms explore really
pioneer ideas like the types of things
we're working on and then eventually
partner with them once they have assets
that are later downstream. And so I
think the industry has sort of
bifurcated where smaller biotechs like
ours take on most of the early
discovery. The stat I'm going to get a
little bit wrong from memory, but it's
something like 70% of molecules approved
in a given year come from originally
small biotechs rather than large pharmas
even though you look at the actual like
dollars of R&D spend on the balance
sheet and it's like largely in big
pharma.
>> Another level intermediation.
>> Another disintermediation and and part
of the reason for that that difference
in cost is they're running most of the
trials. most people partner with farmer
to run trials where a lot of the costs
are incurred. So it's not just that like
oh all large farmers are horribly
inefficient or anything like that.
>> Um and so I think some of them would
tell you like these ideas are really
exciting. We have an external innovation
department if we don't have one
internally or we were collaborating with
a startup that's doing something
similar. And so you can kind of think of
the market structure like you have a
bunch of biotechs which are kind of like
the startups in your ecosystem and then
they're working with something like an
oligopsin of pharmas where it's like a
limited number of buyers for this
particular type of product which is a
therapeutic asset that is ready for a
phase 1 phase 2 trial and so there's a
very liquid market for the phase 1 phase
2 assets and that's the point at which
these partnerships can can come to
fruition and so I think that's what a
lot of those leaders would say now some
of them by by contrast uh for instance
ro bought back in 2013
R&D is currently run by a viv forge, one
of the scientists I admire most in the
world who is like a thousand times
smarter than me. Um, and you know, she's
one of the people who invented this
technology and has a big group doing
this sort of work there. So, it's not
like every pharma takes that view, but I
think that's sort of a general trend.
>> Interesting. Um, full disclosure, I am a
small uh angel investor in New Libert
now, but that that did not influence the
decision to have Jacob on. This is super
fascinating. Thanks so much for coming
on the podcast.
>> Awesome. Thanks for cash. I hope you
enjoyed this episode. If you did, the
most helpful thing you can do is just
share it with other people who you think
might enjoy it. Send it to your friends,
your group chats, Twitter, wherever
else. Just let the word go forth. Other
than that, super helpful if you can
subscribe on YouTube, and leave a
fivestar review on Apple Podcast and
Spotify. Check out the sponsors in the
description below. If you want to
sponsor a future episode, go to
dwarcash.com/advertise.
[Music]
Thank you for tuning in. I'll see you on
the next one.